Updated Console Overview page (#1528)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/development_suite/overview-dev-suite.md

sidebar_label: Console Overview
sidebar_order: 0
---
This page will give you a brief overview of **Mia-Platform Console**, explain **why it's important**, highlight the **advantages of adopting this internal platform solution** and provide a **brief description of its architecture**. 

## Product overview 

In an evolving, omnichannel market, successful enterprises must operate and innovate like tech companies by:

> * Building and launching digital products **quickly**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Building and launching digital products **quickly**; for example, reducing the time-to-market for a new app from months to weeks.
```

> * Viewing market changes as **opportunities**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Viewing market changes as **opportunities**, such as rapidly adopting new technologies.
```

> * Being **flexible** to rapidly respond to demand fluctuations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Being **flexible** to rapidly respond to demand fluctuations, easily increasing or decreasing system capacity based on traffic fluctuations.
```

Author: Ok, what about this version?
* Having the **flexibility** to quickly adjust to changes in demand by easily increasing or decreasing scaling system capacity in response to traffic fluctuations.

* **Integrating** with various tools, partners, and ecosystems.

> Modern companies achieve this through an Internal Developer Platform (IDP). The tool to accomplish this is **Mia-Platform Console**, an Internal Developer Platform builder which aids in industrializing, managing and simplifying cloud-native development and operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modern companies achieve this through an Internal Developer Platform (IDP). The tool to accomplish this is **Mia-Platform Console**, an Internal Developer Platform builder which helps you industrialize and govern cloud-native development and operations.
```

Reviewer: Here, I would also include a list of capabilities that exemplify the product, such as connecting your clusters (even across multiple cloud providers), designing your application from services to APIs, managing security, orchestrating workflows, integrating data from third parties, etc. The list is purely for explanatory purposes.

Author: Ok, here is my proposal:

Modern companies achieve this through an Internal Developer Platform (IDP). **Mia-Platform Console** is the tool that best fits this need, enabling you to quickly and easily build your own fully customized IDP. Mia-Platform Console also allow you to industrialize, manage, and simplify cloud-native development and operations such as connecting your cluster (even across multiple cloud providers), designing your application from services to APIs, orchestrating workflows and so on.

> ![Mia-Platform Console Overview](img/Mia-Platform-infographic-overview.png)

Reviewer: Can we reduce the transparent borders on this image? This way it would appear a bit larger on the page, which is also useful for mobile devices.

Author: I asked Fiorella for the image.

> ## Why Mia-Platform Console is important

Reviewer: I'm not convinced by the title; why is it important? For whom, what, how. Should we make it generic like "Why Mia-Platform Console" or (better) provide some context in the title?

Author: Maybe it's better keep the title as simple as possible, so "Why Mia-Platform Console" is ok for me.

Mia-Platform Console manages the entire software lifecycle seamlessly and unify your IT department under one integrated platform. Simplify cloud-native development while maintaining complete governance and control over your processes.

> * **Clear Governance**: Establish streamlined, standardized pathways for software delivery and integrate governance rules directly into your development workflows, ensuring consistency, compliance, and efficiency throughout the entire development process.

Reviewer: In my opinion, lines 26, 27, and 28 should answer the question "how"

For example, in this part: "Abstracting underlying complexities simplifies tasks for developers, minimizing cognitive load and reducing the need for frequent context switching" 

How does it do that? 
We could add something like: "by providing a single tool that contains all the necessary project information, from configuration to monitoring, including..."

> * **Clear Governance**: Establish streamlined, standardized pathways for software delivery and integrate governance rules directly into your development workflows, ensuring consistency, compliance, and efficiency throughout the entire development process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Clear Governance**: Establish streamlined, standardized pathways for software delivery and integrate governance rules directly into your development workflows, ensuring consistency, compliance, and efficiency throughout the entire development process. For instance, this can involve tracking the evolution of projects, identifying key characteristics of each project and centrally visualizing resources, all of which help maintain transparency and facilitate effective management.
```

> * **Self-service Approach**: Build and manage an Internal Developer Platform (IDP) that empowers development teams by providing them with the necessary tools and resources in a self-service mode, enabling them to develop efficiently and autonomously without dependency on other departments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Self-service Approach**: build and manage an Internal Developer Platform (IDP) that empowers development teams by providing them with the necessary tools and resources in a self-service mode, enabling them to develop efficiently and autonomously without dependency on other departments. This allows them to create test environments independently, build microservices with standardized and pre-configured CI/CD pipelines, and access all necessary information such as logging and monitoring without having to request it from other teams or departments.
```

> * **Lower cognitive load**: Abstracting underlying complexities simplifies tasks for developers, minimizing cognitive load and reducing the need for frequent context switching. This enables them to concentrate more on creative problem-solving and efficient coding, ultimately enhancing productivity and innovation within development projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By abstracting underlying complexities, the tool simplifies tasks for developers, minimizing cognitive load and reducing the need for frequent context switching. It consolidates all necessary project information, from configuration to monitoring, into a single interface. This enables them to concentrate more on creative problem-solving and efficient coding, ultimately enhancing productivity and innovation within development projects.
```

## Ease the digital platform development

> Mia-Platform Console serves the IT team involved in software development because it brings several advantages to the development of an Internal Developer Platform.

Reviewer: IT Team is ambiguous, let's use Developer, Operations, and Platform Engineering Team.

Author: ok

> - **Governance & controls**: Manage runtime resources across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, connect clusters, establish self-service environments, enforce RBAC policies, and establish project templates that standardize developer tools, by creating 'paved roads'.

Reviewer: I think we should also highlight here the ability to choose and connect your own providers such as Git, pipelines, etc.

Author: Here is my proposal:
Manage runtime resources across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, connect clusters, establish self-service environments and enforce RBAC policies, by creating 'paved roads'. You can also establish project templates that standardize developer tools and the ability to choose and connect your own provider such as Git.

Using a Software Catalog, each team owns one or a group of projects.

* **Productivity & quality**: Software can be built in a unified environment that offers secure, self-service capabilities. By leveraging the GitOps methodology, applications can be exposed and deployed seamlessly from a centralized setup.
Enhance your development speed with ready-to-use services or by directly uploading Docker images.

* **Resilience & Observability**: Ensure long-term system integrity through advanced observability tools, metrics, and alerting mechanisms.
Enhance services usability with a functional document portal and with API testing capabilities.

The use of Mia-Platform Console does not bind in any way to a specific technology stack. This product integrates various technologies, ranging from front-end development to deployment tools.

Leverage the **[Marketplace](/marketplace/overview_marketplace.md)** to accelerate development. Thanks to this self-service catalog you can find a set of curated, standardized, and reusable software components to easily integrate in your Internal Developer Portal (IDP). 

## Hierarchical Organization of Mia-Platform Console

> Mia-Platform Console is organized into hierarchical levels to help users navigate its structure effectively. Starting from the highest level down to the most detailed, this section provides a quick guide for understanding the architecture.

Reviewer 2: The Mia-Platform Console is structured hierarchically to facilitate efficient navigation for users. This section offers a concise guide to understanding its architecture, starting from the highest level down to the most detailed.

> - **Project Sections:** Designated areas within a project that delineate and organize functionalities and tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Companies:** An organizational entity that acts as a container for projects. It can represent the entire organization or a specific operational unit.
- **Projects:**A structured collection of microservices, configurations, and data within a Company. It might represent a digital system, a specific component or a Package Business Capability (PBC).
- **Project Sections:** Designated areas within a project that define and organize functionality and tasks.

```

Reviewer 2: It should be nice have an Image of this structure

Author: Hi @Massibian, your feedbacks are ok but at the moment there is no image for the structure.

This structure ensures clear and scalable management of resources and activities within Mia-Platform Console.

> Discover all the **features and capabilities** of Mia-Platform Console by exploring the menu items on the left.

Reviewer: In addition to suggesting the menu, I would also cross-link to the specific overviews of Console, Fast Data, etc

Author: My proposal:
Discover all the **features and capabilities** of Mia-Platform Console, by exploring the menu items on the left of this page, and the other products [Mia-Platform Fast Data](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/docs/fast_data/what_is_fast_data) and [Mia-Platform Marketplace](https://docs.mia-platform.eu/docs/marketplace/overview_marketplace).

Reviewer: add also Microfrontend Composer
